
We fuel global growth. When your company requires export or import financing, or has plans to expand overseas, we can help you obtain the credit you need. Finance international growth through cross-border lending programs, supply chain finance, government-guaranteed loans, and foreign accounts receivable purchasing. By reviewing your banking needs in the U.S. and across the globe, we can help you determine the best strategies to fit your international business. For U.S. companies



Doing business internationally


With non-U.S. subsidiaries




Credit facilities Can help improve your cash flow, expand borrowing availability, and finance long-term growth.  Revolving credit facilities Term loans  Trade and supply chain financing Leverage our global network to help mitigate risk, reduce costs, and streamline supply chain transactions.  Trade cycle financing Supply chain financing Short-term export financing  Structured financing Take advantage of growth opportunities, help minimize risk, and extend your global reach with effective structured financing for non-project related expenses.  Accounts receivable purchasing Medium-term export financing (private insurance)  Specialty financing Work with us to fund medium- to long-term specialized projects with government guarantees though the Export-Import Bank of the United States and Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC).


Overdraft facilities Leverage short-term financing options for European subsidiaries to help provide working capital for day-to-day operations in the event of delays in receiving payments. Working capital facilities Can help improve your cash flow, expand borrowing availability, and finance long-term growth leveraging our lending platforms in Canada, Ireland, Singapore, and the U.K. Term facilities Finance capital expenditures, acquisitions, repurchases of company stock, or to refinance existing debt. Asset-based financing Access the capital you need to help drive your business forward. Through specialized monitoring of credit and collateral, we can underwrite loans that are outside the typical lending criteria of most traditional financing relationships. These are just some of the financing tools Wells Fargo can provide to help support your international business. Talk to your relationship manager about a credit strategy that fits your business or learn more about additional financing options.



