
Get financing for the commercial trucks, trailers and specialty vehicles your business needs. Select one of the tabs below to get started.



Trucks


Semi-Trailers


Specialty Vehicles


Buses and Motorcoaches


Dealer Finance




Loan and lease options to help meet your commercial vehicle needs We can help you determine the right equipment finance strategy for your business. Choose from a variety of loan and lease options to build or expand your fleet. We can provide:  Financing and refinancing of new and used equipment Terms from 12 to 84 months Competitive fixed or floating interest rates Seasonal payment structures Interim financing Term loans Operating leases Standard and modified TRAC leases Equipment lines of credit Lease purchase agreements Dealer retail finance programs  Our customers We work with end users, wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and manufacturers that use, manufacturer, sell, and rent Class 6, 7, and 8 vehicles. Our customers include owner/operators, highway fleets (including private fleets), leasing companies, and commercial vehicle dealers.


New and used trailers for lease We maintain an extensive inventory of semi-trailers for lease to fleet owners across the U.S. We have new trailers for lease slotted for production each month through the end of the year. Also choose from our current inventory of used trailers, including: composite plate vans (53-foot air ride dry vans), refrigerated trailers, flatbeds, dumps, steps, and low boys. We have new trailers for lease slotted for production each month through the end of the year, so please contact us for available new trailer inventory. Our customers We serve companies with small, medium or large trailer fleets as well as leasing companies. We can offer a variety of transaction structures, including TRAC leases, lease purchase agreements, and operating leases with terms from one to eight years.


Financing and leasing for refuse, recycling, and other specialty vehicles We work with businesses and corporations of all sizes that need capital equipment and with vocational equipment manufacturers and distributors to help provide financing for your customers’ equipment acquisitions. We finance and lease a variety of vocational equipment including:  Refuse and recycling haulers Vacuum, pumper, and tanker trucks Tow, utility, and tire service trucks Scrap industry equipment Emergency vehicles Transfer stations and sorting lines Balers and compactors Medium duty service and work trucks Tanker, refuse, and vocational trailers Boom and crane trucks Document shredder trucks Compressed natural gas-equipped trucks  Our equipment financing specialists can offer a financing or leasing option that fits the nature of your work and business structure. Our products and services include:  Financing and refinancing for new and used vocational equipment Terms from 36 to 84 months Competitive fixed or floating interest rates Up to 100 percent financing Seasonal and skip payment structures Application-only programs Term loans Standard and modified TRAC leases Lease purchase agreements Operating leases Dealer retail finance programs Manufacturer subsidy programs 


Comprehensive finance and lease strategies for the transit industry We offer financing designed specifically for businesses in the transit industry, including charter and tour service providers, transit contractors, schools, municipalities, and bus and motorcoach manufacturers and distributors. We can provide:  Financing and refinancing of new and used equipment Seasonal and skip payment structures Competitive fixed or floating interest rates Lease purchase agreements Standard and modified TRAC leases Operating leases Municipal leases Application-only programs Dealer retail finance programs Interim financing Manufacturer subsidy programs  


Capital for truck and trailer dealerships and leasing companies We offer capital, underwriting guidelines, and portfolio management to truck and trailer leasing companies who underwrite and service their own leases. Our products and services include:  Flexible financing terms from 12 to 84 months (balloon financing available) Up to 100% financing available  Credit lines from $5 million to $40+ million  Fixed or floating rates Timely documentation and funding  Refinancing available  Portfolio purchases 



