
Companies looking to help maximize credit availability can turn to Wells Fargo for flexible financing. We bring long-standing financial experience to help companies across a wide range of industries access the financing they need to help address their ever-changing goals. We pride ourselves on quick turnaround times, efficient communication, and a fast closing process. We are committed to forming longstanding relationships with our customers throughout their entire life cycle. Financing solutions 

 Agented and syndicated asset-based financing Asset-based lending can be a financing alternative for asset-rich companies looking to maximize their borrowing capacity. Through specialized monitoring of credit and collateral, we can underwrite loans that are outside the typical lending criteria of most traditional financing relationships — which can help provide you with greater credit availability and more flexibility to pursue your company’s goals. We’re a leader in asset-based financing, and offer agented and syndicated senior secured financing to middle-market companies and large corporations within the U.S., Canada, UK, and beyond. 
Cross-border From multinational global operations to middle-market businesses looking to expand for the first time, we have financing solutions that can help on the global stage.  Consolidated international effort managed through offices in U.S., Canada, and the UK Extensive foreign experience to help provide creative and competitive financing solutions to our customers Proven financial expertise with respect to international legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements, as well as foreign take-privates and foreign buyout financings Learn more about our Capital Finance UK team  

 Business needs Businesses of varying sizes and circumstances turn to Wells Fargo Capital Finance to expand their borrowing capacity. 

 Working capital Growth and expansion Mergers and acquisitions Turnaround situations Capital expenditures 
 Domestic & International trade Buyouts Bankruptcy Refinancing Restructuring 
 Recapitalization Importing and exporting Funding new and existing government contracts Seasonal cash flow fluctuations 

 Industries We recognize companies in many industries have specialized needs and therefore face their own unique challenges. We work with companies in various segments and markets and have teams focused on the following industries: 

  Apparel and textiles Building materials Business services Consumer goods Energy, oil, and gas  
  Equipment rentalFood and beverage Government contractors Financial companies Manufacturing  
  RetailSoftware and technology Staffing Steel and metals Transportation and trucking  


