



About us


Focus areas


Partnership model


Representative investments




Wells Fargo Strategic Capital (WFSC) is the primary merchant banking platform of Wells Fargo & Company. Our capital solutions include non-control equity, private credit, and investments in approved Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) funds. We partner with companies across their entire lifecycle, providing venture capital and growth equity to early-stage technology and healthcare businesses, as well as patient debt and non-control equity to well established, more mature businesses across most sectors. WFSC has over 30 investment professionals across the United States based in the San Francisco Bay Area, New York, Charlotte, Chicago, and Houston.  Meet the leadership team 


Our four focus areas of investment include: 

Diversified industries
The Diversified Industries team works with mature businesses across various industries that are well known to Wells Fargo to provide both debt and non-control equity to help accelerate organic growth, recapitalize their balance sheets, and/or execute strategic acquisitions.  Our team is comprised of investment professionals with significant experience partnering with management teams and bank partners to support companies across a wide array of sectors.

     


	
	
	
		
Fund investing
The Fund Investing Division (FID) invests in both private credit and private equity focused Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) funds led by top quality management teams who are well known to the bank.  We collaborate with partners across Wells Fargo to help support and contribute to the continued success of underlying fund investments.  Wells Fargo has been investing in SBIC funds for over 30 years and the FID team has extensive experience and relationships with the SBIC community and fund managers.

     


	
	
	
		
Healthcare
The Healthcare team invests broadly across healthcare subsectors including healthcare services, healthcare IT, devices, diagnostics, and life science tools.  We seek to fund companies that provide high quality and cost-effective care across the healthcare ecosystem. We partner with both venture/growth stage companies as well as more mature companies, with proven business models and products or services at various stages of commercialization. Our team is comprised of investment professionals with significant healthcare industry experience and expertise in investing and supporting management teams in building emerging companies.

     


	
	
	
		
Technology
The Technology team invests in fast growing early to late-stage private companies that tend to align strategically with Wells Fargo.  Some of our key investment themes include Financial Technologies, Regulatory Compliance, AI and Machine Learning, Payments, Cyber Security, Authentication/Digital Identity, and Distributed Ledger Technologies. We also focus on the various subsectors of technology, including software, internet, mobile, Real Estate/Prop Tech, Logistics Tech, and Insure Tech.  Our team is comprised of seasoned investment professionals with experience working across the capital stack in technology, private equity/venture type investing, and deal sourcing. The team is well versed in assisting management teams in building emerging companies and has broad experience bases from prior roles at VC and PE funds, corporate finance, and previous operational experience at start-ups.




We endeavor to form long-term relationships with best-in-class management teams as they build enduring and category-defining companies.  WFSC is a non-control investor and patient debt provider. We can lead or co-invest in transactions, empowering high-quality management teams to focus on growing their businesses. We leverage Wells Fargo’s broad network of resources and our teams’ subject-matter expertise to help partner companies succeed throughout their lifecycle. Our typical investment size ranges from $10mm to $50mm. In select situations we may be able to provide larger capital needs and syndicate larger financings to partner institutions. 




    
    
    
    

 

    

    
    

 


 
















Centerbridge Partners and Wells Fargo enter strategic relationship focused on direct lending to middle-market companies
Centerbridge Partners (Centerbridge) and Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) announced they are entering into a strategic relationship focused on direct lending to non-sponsor North American middle market companies.  Learn more 




Contact us
For more information on commercial financing, contact us.


